Hello there.
In professional projects, one inevitable thing across all projects is constant additions of new features.
Product managers always try to come up with new features in order to give their customers the best experience.
We already looked at one such feature for displaying only kid friendly bookmarks.
Let's now extend Trello so that we can share such kid friendly bookmarks with partner websites.
And to implement this, we will learn yet another of some object oriented feature of Java.
The new requirement is to provide the ability to share kid friendly books and web links with a fictitious
partner website called Good Snips.
So this imaginary partner website is a bookmarking website, but built specifically for kids, and not
that we should be able to share only those kid friendly bookmarks that are either web links or books,
but not movies.
So that's the requirement.
This is a snapshot taken from the three geo system and it displays two blocks.
A new link called shared with good snips has been added here.
Note that this link is not there in the existing trio system and it is added here only to introduce
the next feature that we are going to learn.
This link will also be shown only for books and web links, but not movies as per the requirement.
Moreover, this link will be shown only for editorial staff.
That is, regular users or email admin will not be shown this link.
So editorial staff are the only folks who can mark a bookmark as kid friendly as well as share a kid
friendly bookmark with partner websites.
Now let's say an editor clicks the link associated with the first book, which is The Adventures of
Huckleberry Finn.
That action would invoke a method called Share with book object passed as a method of argument.
Notice that the method parameter is off type bookmark.
So bookmark is being used as a polymorphic reference type.
And due to this, we know that the same method can be passed a weblink or even a movie object.
Right.
The method share would first invoke a method called get item data, which would return the data specific
to the book.
Adventures of Huckleberry Finn in XML format.
Next, the method would share this XML data with the partner website snips.
For this, we can expect good snips to be exposing a web service and Trillion would programmatically
pass this data to that web service.
Good snips would take that data and add it to its own database.
We can also assume that once the bookmark data is shared, the link shared with good snips will not
be shown with that bookmark anymore.
To implement this new feature.
One thing we need to decide on is how to implement get item data method, which is responsible for generating
the XML content.
Generating XML data is trivial.
But the question is where would you write this method?
And let's review two design alternatives for this.
First alternative is to have get item data method as an abstract method within the bookmark class and
then overwrite it in subclasses.
From a design standpoint, there are a couple of issues with this implementation.
First we need to add empty gate item data method in the movie class and also any future subclasses of
bookmark.
So we are adding some dummy code and that's not elegant.
Next.
By doing so, we are also announcing that the movie class also has get item data method.
So these are a couple of design issues.
And let's look at the second alternative.
And the second alternate, the get item data method is added only in book and weblink classes.
Again, there are two issues with this implementation.
First, there is no common protocol.
That is, programmers of book and web blink classes and all future programmers should be aware of this
method.
That's because if in future any new type of kid friendly bookmark has to be shared, then programmers
should ensure that a similar get item data method is also added in the corresponding class of that bookmark
type.
Second issue is we cannot take advantage of polymorphism, which is a consequence of not having a common
protocol.
This particular alternative actually seems worse than the first one, as the first one at least defines
a common protocol, which I believe is very important from a design standpoint.
The issues from the two design alternatives highlight a very important requirement.
What we need is a common protocol for defining optional capability.
By optional capability we mean define get item data method only in web blank and book classes like in
the case of second alternative.
But at the same time, we also want a common protocol representing this optional capability so that
we can take advantage of polymorphism, like in the case of first alternative.
And one way to achieve this is via multiple inheritance.
So next, let's see what multiple inheritance is.
Thank you.